

silence would have. She quickly reached over and picked a cigarette out of the porcelainbox, but didn't prepare to light it. "Well, you'd think you did," she said. She listened. Shewaited. "I mean, did you call for any special reason?" she said abruptly. "I mean, did youhave any special reason for calling me?""No special reason, buddy, no special reason."Franny waited. Then the other end spoke up again."I suppose I more or less called to tell you to go on with your Jesus Prayer if youwant to. I mean that's your business. That's your business. It's a goddam nice prayer, anddon't let anybody tell you anything different.""I know," Franny said. Very nervously, she reached for the box of matches."I don't think I ever really meant to try to
stop
you from saying it. At least, I don'tthink I did. I don't know. I don't know
what
the hell was going on in my mind. There'sone thing I
do
know for sure, though. I have no goddam authority to be speaking up like a
seer
the way I have been. We've had enough goddam seers in this family. That partbothers me. That part scares me a little bit."Franny took advantage of the slight pause that followed to straighten her back atrifle, as though, for some reason, good posture, or better posture, might come in handy atany moment."It
scares
me a little bit, but it doesn't petrify me. Let's get that straight. It doesn't
 petrify
me. Because you forget one thing, buddy. When you first felt the urge, the
call,
tosay the prayer, you didn't immediately start searching the four corners of the world for amaster.
You came home.
You not only came
home
but you went into a goddam collapse.So if you look at it in a certain way, by rights you're only entitled to the low-gradespiritual counsel we're able to give you around here, and no more. At least you knowthere won't be any goddam ulterior motives inthis madhouse. Whatever we are, we're not
 fishy,
buddy."Franny suddenly tried with one hand alone to get a light for her cigarette. She openedthe matchbox compartment successfully, but one inept scratch of a match sent the box tothe floor. She bent quickly and picked up the box, and let the spilled matches lie."I'll tell you one thing, Franny. One thing I
know.
And don't get upset. It isn'tanything bad. But if it's the religious life you want, you ought to know right now thatyou're missing out on every single goddam religious action that's going on around thishouse. You don't even have sense enough to
drink
when somebody brings you a cup ofconsecrated chicken soup—which is the only kind of chicken soup Bessie ever brings toanybody around this madhouse. So just
tell
me, just tell me, buddy. Even if you went outand searched the whole world for a master —some guru, some holy man—to tell youhow to say your Jesus Prayer properly, what good would it do you? How in
hell
are yougoing to recognize a legitimate holy man when you see one if you don't even know a cupof consecrated chicken soup when it's right in front of your nose? Can you tell me that?"Franny was now sitting up rather abnormally straight."I'm just asking you. I'm not trying to upset you. Am I upsetting you?"

Franny answered, but her answer evidently didn't carry."What? I can't hear you.""I said no. Where are you calling from? Where are you now?""Oh, what the hell's the difference where I am? Pierre, South Dakota, for God's sake.Listen to me, Franny—I'm sorry, don't get riled. But listen to me. I have just one or twovery small things more, and then I'll quit, I promise you that. But did you know, just bythe way, that Buddy and I drove up to see you in stock last summer? Did you know wesaw you in 'Playboy of the Western World' one night? One god-awful
hot
night, I can tellyou that. But did you know we were there?"An answer seemed to be called for. Franny stood up, then immediately sat down. Sheplaced the ashtray slightly away from her, as if it were very much in her way. "No, Ididn't," she said. "Nobody said one single—
 No, I
didn't.""Well, we were. We were. And I'll tell you, buddy. You were good. And when I saygood, I mean
good.
You held that goddam mess
up.
Even all those sunburned lobsters inthe audience knew it. And now I hear you're finished with the theatre forever—I hearthings, I hear things. And I remember the spiel you came back with when the season wasover. Oh, you irritate me, Franny! I'm sorry, you
do.
You've made the great
startling
goddam discovery that the acting profession's loaded with mercenaries and butchers. As Iremember, you even looked like somebody who'd just been
shattered
because all theushers hadn't been geniuses. What's the master with you, buddy? Where are your brains?If you've had a freakish education, at least
use
it,
use
it. You can say the Jesus Prayerfrom now till doomsday, but if you don't realize that the only thing that counts in thereligious life is de
tach
ment,

I don't see how you'll ever even move an
inch.
Detachment,buddy, and only detachment. Desirelessness. 'Cessation from all hankerings.' It's thisbusiness of de
sir
ing, if you want to know the goddam truth, that makes an actor in thefirst place. Why're you making me tell you things you already know? Somewhere alongthe line—in one damn incarnation or another, if you like—you not only had a hankeringto be an actor or an actress but to be a
good
one. You're stuck with it now. You can't just
walk out
on the results of your own hankerings. Cause and effect, buddy, cause andeffect. The only thing you can do now, the only religious thing you can do, is
act.
Act forGod, if you want to— be
God's
actress, if you want to. What could be prettier? You canat least try to, if you want to —there's nothing wrong in
try
ing." There was a slight pause."You'd better get busy, though, buddy. The goddam
sands
run out on you every time youturn around. I know what I'm talking about. You're lucky if you get time to sneeze in thisgoddam phenomenal world." There was another, slighter pause. "I used to worry aboutthat. I don't worry about it very much any more. At least I'm still in love with Yorick'sskull. At least I always have time enough to stay in love with Yorick's skull. I want anhonorable goddam skull when I'm dead, buddy. I
hanker
after an honorable goddam skulllike Yorick's. And so do
 you,
Franny Glass. So do you, so do you. . . . Ah, God, what'sthe use of talking? You had the exact same goddam freakish upbringing I did, and if youdon't know by this time what kind of
skull
you want when you're dead, and what youhave to do to
earn
it—I mean if you don't
at least
know by this time that if you're anactress you're supposed to
act,
then what's the use of talking?"Franny was now sitting with the flat of her free hand pressed against the side of her

face, like someone with an excruciating toothache."One other thing. And that's all. I promise you. But the thing is, you raved and youbitched when you came home about the stupidity of audiences. The goddam 'unskilledlaughter' coming from the fifth row. And that's right, that's right—God knows it'sdepressing. I'm not saying it isn't. But that's none of your business, really. That's none ofyour business, Franny. An artist's only concern is to shoot for some kind of perfection,and
on his own terms,
not anyone else's. You have no right to think about those things, Iswear to you. Not in any real sense, anyway. You know what I mean?"There was a silence. Both saw it through without any seeming impatience orawkwardness. Franny still appeared to have some considerable pain on one side of herface, and continued to keep her hand on it, but her expression was markedlyuncomplaining.The voice at the other end came through again. "I remember about the fifth time Iever went on 'Wise Child.' I subbed for Walt a few times when he was in a cast—remember when he was in that cast? Anyway, I started bitching one night before thebroadcast. Seymour'd told me to shine my shoes just as I was going out the door withWaker. I was furious. The studio audience were all morons, the announcer was a moron,the sponsors were morons, and I just damn well wasn't going to shine my shoes for them,I told Seymour. I said they couldn't see them anyway, where we sat. He said to shinethem anyway. He said to shine them for the Fat Lady. I didn't know what the hell he wastalking about, but he had a very Seymour look on his face, and so I did it. He never didtell me who the Fat Lady was, but I shined my shoes for the Fat Lady every time I everwent on the air again—all the years you and I were on the program together, if youremember. I don't think I missed more than just a couple of times. This terribly clear,clear picture of the Fat Lady formed in my mind. I had her sitting on this porch all day,swatting flies, with her radio going full-blast from morning till night. I figured the heatwas terrible, and she probably had cancer, and—I don't know. Anyway, it seemedgoddam clear why Seymour wanted me to shine my shoes when I went on the air. It made
sense"
 Franny was standing. She had taken her hand away from her face to hold the phonewith two hands. "He told me, too," she said into the phone. "He told me to be funny forthe Fat Lady, once." She released one hand from the phone and placed it, very briefly, onthe crown of her head, then went back to holding the phone with both hands. "I didn'tever picture her on a porch, but with very—you know—very thick legs, very veiny. I hadher in an awful wicker chair. She had cancer,
too,
though, and she had the radio goingfull-blast all day! Mine did, too!""Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Let me tell you something now, buddy. . . . Are youlistening?"Franny, looking extremely tense, nodded."I don't care where an actor acts. It can be in summer stock, it can be over a radio, itcan be over
television,
it can be in a goddam Broadway theatre, complete with the mostfashionable, most well-fed, most sunburned-looking audience you can imagine. But I'lltell you a terrible secret—Are you listening to me?
There isn't anyone out there who isn't

Seymour's Fat Lady.
That includes your Professor Tupper, buddy. And all his goddamcousins by the dozens. There isn't anyone anywhere that isn't Seymour's Fat Lady. Don'tyou know that? Don't you know that goddam secret yet? And don't you know—
listen
tome, now—
don't you know who that Fat Lady really is? . . .
Ah, buddy. Ah, buddy. It'sChrist Himself. Christ Himself, buddy."For joy, apparently, it was all Franny could do to hold the phone, even with bothhands.For a fullish half minute or so, there were no other words, no further speech. Then: "Ican't talk any more, buddy." The sound of a phone being replaced in its catch followed.Franny took in her breath slightly but continued to hold the phone to her ear. A dialtone, of course, followed the formal break in the connection. She appeared to find itextraordinarily beautiful to listen to, rather as if it were the best possible substitute for theprimordial silence itself. But she seemed to know, too, when to stop listening to it, as ifall of what little or much wisdom there is in the world were suddenly hers. When she hadreplaced the phone, she seemed to know just what to do next, too. She cleared away thesmoking things, then drew back the cotton bedspread from the bed she had been sittingon, took off her slippers, and got into the bed. For some minutes, before she fell into adeep, dreamless sleep, she just lay quiet, smiling at the ceiling.